Dijit CheckBox Tree===================The Dijit CheckBox Tree, github project code 'cbtree' was formerly published under the name *'Dijit Tree with Multi State Checkboxes'*. The Tree and associated models are highly configurable providing support for:* No checkboxes in which case the cbtree acts the same as the default dijit tree.* Dual state checkboxes (checked/unchecked).* Multi state checkboxes (checked/unchecked/mixed).* Third party custom widget instead of the default checkbox.* Optional strict Parent-Child checkbox relationship.* Hide branch and/or leaf iconsAll Dijit CheckBox Tree modules are fully AMD compliant, in addition, the Tree comes with two powerful extensions (API's):1. Tree Styling2. Store Model APIBoth extensions are optional therefore if the user does not require their functionality they do not need to load them.### Tree Styling ###The Tree Styling extension allows the user to easily apply styling and/or custom icons to the entire tree or on a per data item basis without the use of callback functions. The functionality is provided by means of simple getter and setter methods, for example:			tree.set("labelStyle", {color:"green"} );    Sets the label style for all tree labels to green whereas:			tree.set("labelStyle", {color:"red"}, myItem );Sets the label style for all tree nodes associated with data item *'myItem'* to red. For more examples and a detailed description of the Tree Styling extension please refer to the Tree Styling documentation.### Store Model API ###The Store Model API provides support to programmatically build and maintain a Dijit CheckBox Tree, that is, you can start with an empty JSON data set (empty tree) and use the API to add and delete data items, move them around, add references, simply change data item properties or even dynamically change the store query. (see ../demos/tree03.html for a demonstration). For example, to add a parent data item with two children:			var parent = model.newItem( {name:'Homer', hair:'none'} );			model.newItem( {name:'lisa', hair:'blond'}, parent );			// Add Bart as a referenced top-level store item			model.addReference( model.newItem({name:'Bart', hair:'blond'}), parent );The newly created tree nodes will render as follows:+ Homer  - Lisa  - BartPlease refer to the *Store Model API Ducomentation* for a detailed description of the available API functions and the distinct difference between regular store items and top-level store items.## Installation ##Before downloading and installing the cbtree package you must first install the latest dojo toolkit, that is dojo 1.7 or later. Assuming you created a directory structure like:    /dojotoolkit      /dijit      /dojo      /utilUnzip/untar the cbtree package in the '/dojotoolkit' directory which will create a new '/cbtree' directory like:    /dojotoolkit      /cbtree      /dijit      /dojo      /util## Basic CheckBox Tree Sample ##    <!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">    <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">      <head>         <title>Dijit CheckBox Tree </title>             <style type="text/css">          @import "../dijit/themes/claro/claro.css";          @import "./themes/claro/claro.css";        </style>        <script type="text/javascript">          var dojoConfig = {                async: true,                parseOnLoad: true,                isDebug: true,                baseUrl: "../",                packages: [                  { name: "dojo",  location: "dojo" },                  { name: "dijit", location: "dijit" },                  { name: "cbtree",location: "cbtree" }                ]          };        </script>        <script type="text/javascript" src="../dojo/dojo.js"></script>       </head>              <body class="claro">        <div id="CheckboxTree">            <script type="text/javascript">          require([            "dojo/data/ItemFileWriteStore",            "cbtree/Tree",                    // Checkbox tree            "cbtree/models/ForestStoreModel"  // ForestStoreModel            ], function( ItemFileWriteStore, Tree, ForestStoreModel) {              var store = new ItemFileWriteStore( { url: "./datastore/Family-1.7.json" });              var model = new ForestStoreModel( {                      store: store,                      query: {type: 'parent'},                      rootLabel: 'The Family'                      });               var tree = new Tree( {                      model: model,                      id: "MenuTree"                      });              tree.placeAt( "CheckboxTree" );            });          </script>        </div>      </body>     </html>