# The CheckBox Tree #The CheckBox Tree, github project code 'cbtree' was formerly published underthe name [Dijit Tree with Multi State Checkboxes](http://thejekels.com). Both the Tree and associated models are highly configurable providing supportfor:* The standard dijit tree, that is, without checkboxes.* Default dual state checkboxes (checked/unchecked).* Multi state checkboxes (checked/unchecked/mixed).* Third party widgets instead of the standard checkbox.* Optional strict Parent-Child checkbox relationship.* Tree Styling and Custom Icons* Hide branch and/or leaf icons* Enhanced Store Model APIAll dijit CheckBox Tree modules are fully AMD compliant, the CheckBox Treecomes with two powerful extensions (API's) allowing the user to programmaticallycontrol every aspect of the tree. Both extensions are optional thereforeif the user does not require the functionality they do not need to be loaded.1. [Tree Styling](./TreeStyling.md)2. [Store Model API](./StoreModelAPI.md)#### Important: ####The new CheckBox Tree implementation is a complete rewrite of the previous*Dijit Tree with Multi State Checkboxes*, adding new properties, features andAPI's. If you plan on migrating from the old tree to this new implementationit is important you read all the documentation provided as properties have beenrenamed and some properties have moved from the tree to the model and vice versa.<h2 id="basics">CheckBox Tree Basics</h2>***********************************The CheckBox Tree is an extension of the standard dijit tree, therefore allfeatures available with the dijit tree are also offered by the CheckBox Treewith the exception of dijit Tree V1.0 backward compatibility, that is, theCheckBox Tree requires a model.  This document describes the CheckBox Tree extensions only. Details of thestandard dijit tree can be found [here](http://dojotoolkit.org/reference-guide/1.7/dijit/Tree.html).* [Installation](#installation)  * [Directories](#directories)  * [Demos](#demos)* [CheckBox Tree Properties](#properties)* [CheckBox Tree API](#api)* [Sample Application](#samples)### CheckBoxes & Tree Store Models ###The CheckBox Tree is implemented using the Model-View-Controller (MVC) patternand as a result the tree itself is considered the 'View' or presentation layer.The tree offers the ability to instantiate a checkbox for tree nodes but doesnot control whether or not a tree node is eligible to get a checkbox, that isactually determined by the model. The CheckBox Tree comes with two [Store Models](./StoreModels.md):* [TreeStoreModel](./StoreModels.md#treeStoreModel)* [ForestStoreModel](./StoreModels.md#forestStoreModel)The [model properties](./StoreModels.md#properties) and configuration determinecheckbox eligibility for tree nodes. By default, both models are configured togenerate checkboxes for every tree node. If you are planning to write your own model, please refer to '/cbtree/models/model.js'for the model interface definition.### CheckBox vs Checked State ###The model provides the primary interface to get or set the checked state for any dataitem by means of the *getChecked()* and *setChecked()* methods. In general, a modelrefers to the 'checked' state rather than a checkbox state simply because a checkboxis just the visual representation of a state. As a case in point, one could simplyreplace the default checkbox with a third party widget, using the trees *widget*property, as long as the widget is capable of representing a 'checked' state.Although you can get or set the checked state via a tree node using *get("checked")* or *set("checked", false)*, *checked* is not an actual property of a tree node insteadthe request is redirected to the models *getChecked()* and *setChecked()* methods.### Store Model API ###As stated before, the CheckBox Tree comes with an optional [Store Model API](./StoreModelAPI.md)which serves both the TreeStoreModel as well as the ForestStoreModel. The StoreModel API allows the user to programmatically build and maintain checkbox trees.For example, you can create your store starting with an empty JSON dataset or usean existing data store and use the API to add, remove or change store items.In addition, you can simply check/uncheck a single store item or a set of storeitems using a store query or manage any store item attributes using the *setItemAttr()*and *getItemAttr()* methods. Some of the Store Model API methods are:* check(), uncheck()* getChecked(), setChecked()* getItemAttr(), setItemAttr()* fetchItem(), fetchItemsWithChecked()* addReference(), removeReference()For a detailed description of all API methods, please refer to [Store Model API](./StoreModelAPI.md). Demo application *tree03.html* in the directory '/cbtree/demos' demonstrates allfeatures of the Store Model API.<h2 id="installation">CheckBox Tree Installation</h2>***********************************Before downloading and installing the cbtree package you must first install thelatest dojo toolkit, that is, dojo 1.7 or later. Assuming you created a directorystructure like:    /dojotoolkit      /dijit      /dojo      /utilUnzip/untar the cbtree package in the '/dojotoolkit' directory which will createa new '/cbtree' directory like:    /dojotoolkit      /cbtree      /dijit      /dojo      /utilThe correct installation location of /cbtree is important in order to make the included demos and unit tests work properly right out of the box.<h3 id="directories">CheckBox Tree Directories</h3>After installation the /cbtree directory has the following subdirectories:    /cbtree      /datastore      /demos      /documentation      /icons      /models      /templates      /tests      /themes*/datastore*  > The /datastore directory contains several JSON data stores which are used by> the demos and unit tests.*/demos*> The /demos directory contains a set of simple applications demonstrating theCheckBox Tree features and capabilities. These demos also serve as examples onhow to implement the CheckBox Tree. Note: All demos are also fully AMD compliant.*/documentation*> The /documentation contains all CheckBox Tree documentation. All documentation> is written using the [markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)> format. */icons*> The /icons directory contains sample custom icons and their associated cssfiles, please refer to [Tree Styling](./TreeStyling.md) for a detailed descriptionon how to use custom icons.*/models*> The /models directory contains the standard CheckBox Tree Store models, StoreModel API and required extensions. Please refer to [Store Model API](./StoreModelAPI.md)for a detailed description on how to load and the use the Store Model API.*/templates*> The /templates directory contains the HTML template file for the CheckBox Tree.*/tests*> The /tests directory contains a set of unit test demonstrating the CheckBox Treefeatures and capabilities. These unit tests have been derived from the standard dijit tree.*/themes*> The /themes directory contains the css files and images required for each dijit> theme, that is, claro, nihilo, soria and tundra.<h3 id="demos">CheckBox Tree Demos</h3>The cbtree packages comes with a set of demos and unit tests each demonstratingthe CheckBox Tree features and capabilities. If the cbtree packages has beeninstalled according the installation guidelines above all demos and unit testwork out of the box. Currently 5 demo applications are included:1. tree01, Basic CheckBox Tree and some Tree Styling API features.2. tree02, Basic CheckBox Tree and Custom Icons.3. tree03, Build a CheckBox Tree using the Store Model API.4. tree04, CheckBox Tree with a third party Widget mixed in.5. tree05, CheckBox Tree with the ToggleButton widget mixed in.<h2 id="properties">CheckBox Tree Properties</h2>*************************************************In addition to the standard dijit tree properties the CheckBox Tree has thefollowing set of public properties. For each property the type and defaultvalue is listed. #### branchIcons: ####> Boolean (true), determines if the FolderOpen/FolderClosed icon or their custom> equivalent is displayed. If false, the branch icon is hidden.#### branchReadOnly: ####> Boolean (false), determines if branch checkboxes are read only. If true, the> user must explicitly check/uncheck every child checkbox individually.#### checkBoxes: ####> Boolean (true), if true it enables the creation of checkboxes, If a tree node> actually gets a checkbox depends on the configuration of the [model properties](./StoreModels.md#properties)> If false no checkboxes will be created regardless of the model configuration.> NOTE: if checkBoxes is true, the model for the tree **MUST** support the > getChecked() and setChecked() methods.#### nodeIcons: ####> Boolean (true), Determines if the Leaf icon, or its custom equivalent, is> displayed. If false, the node or leaf icon is hidden.#### widget: ####> Object (null), specifies the checkbox widget to be instanciated for the tree> node. The default is the CheckBox Tree multi-state checkbox. (see [mixin widgets](#widgets)for details).##### Example #####The following example illustrates how to apply the CheckBox Tree properties.Please note that if the default property value is used the property can beomitted.    require(["dojo/data/ItemFileWriteStore",              "cbtree/Tree",             "cbtree/model/TreeStoreModel"],       function( ItemFileWriteStore, Tree, TreeStoreModel ) {                    ...        var myTree = new Tree( {                model: model,                id: "MenuTree",                branchIcons: true,                branchReadOnly: false,                checkBoxes: true,                nodeIcons: true,                    ...                });Additional CheckBox Tree Properties are available when the Tree Styling API isloaded, see [Tree Styling Properties](./TreeStyling.md#properties) for details.<h2 id="api">CheckBox Tree API</h2>***********************************### Accessors ###As of dojo 1.6 all dijit widgets come with the so called auto-magic accessors*get()* and *set()*. All CheckBox Tree API's, that is, the CheckBox Tree, TreeStyling and Store Model API, use these accessors as their primary interface.For example, to get the checkbox state of a tree node one could simply call: *get("checked")* or to change the checked state call: *set("checked",true)*. *****************************#### get( propertyName ) ####> Returns the value of the tree or tree node property identified by *propertyName*.*propertyName:* String> Name of the tree or tree node property.*****************************#### set( propertyName, newValue ) ####> Set the value of the tree or tree node property identified by *propertyName*.*propertyName:* String> Name of the tree or tree node property.*value:* AnyType> New value to be assigned.### Callbacks ###*****************************#### onCheckBoxClick( item, nodeWidget, evt ) ####> Callback routine called each time a checkbox is clicked.*item:* data.item> The data.item associated with the nodeWidget whose checkbox got clicked.*nodeWidget:* dijit.widget> The tree node widget.*evt:* Object> A dojo event object##### Example #####    function checkBoxClicked( item, nodeWidget, evt ) {      alert( "The new state for " + this.getLabel(item) + " is: " + nodeWidget.get("checked") );    }                ...    var myTree = new Tree( { model: model, id: "MyTree" });    connect.connect( myTree, "onCheckBoxClick", model, checkBoxClicked );<h2 id="advanced">CheckBox Tree Advanced</h2>***********************************### Mapping Model Events ###The CheckBox Tree is completely event driven and after instantiation only actson events generated by the model by mapping those types of events to tree nodeproperties such as 'label' or 'checked'. Any event that cannot be mapped to a tree node property is ignored by the tree. For example, if a data item has a property called 'age' and when the property is updated, the model will generatean event accordingly however, the tree does not known how the 'age' property ofthe data item relates to any of the tree node properties and therefore ignoresthe event.The CheckBox Tree offers one additional method to map model events to tree nodeproperties,**********************************************************#### mapEventToAttr( oldAttr, attr, nodeAttr, value ) ####> Map an attribute name passed from the model to a tree node property/attribute.> If the optional *value* argument is specified and is **NOT** a function it is> assigned to the tree node attribute. If *value* is a function, the result returned> by the function is assigned to the tree node attribute.*oldAttr:* String> Attribute name that is currently mapped to an tree node attribute. If present> its entry in the table is removed.*attr:* String> Attribute name to be mapped. This is typically an attribute/property name of> a data item.*nodeAttr:* String> Attribute/property name of a tree node to which argument *attr* is mapped. Any> mapping event results in a call to `treeNode.set(nodeAttr, value)`*value:* AnyType> Optional, Fixed value to be assigned to *nodeAttr*. However, if value is a function,> the function is called as `value(item, nodeAttr, modelValue)` and the result> returned is assigned to *nodeAttr* instead. ##### Example #####The following example maps the *age* property of a data.item to the tree node property *label*. Each time a checkbox is clicked the *age* property of theassociated data item is incremented resulting in an *age* update event from themodel.    <script type="text/javascript">      require([        "dojo/_base/connect",        "dojo/data/ItemFileWriteStore",        "dojo/domReady",        "cbtree/Tree",        "cbtree/models/ForestStoreModel"        ], function( connect, ItemFileWriteStore, domReady, Tree, ForestStoreModel ) {              function makeLabel(item, attr, value ) {                // summary:                //    Action routine called when the tree recieved an update event from the model                //    indicating the 'age' attribute of a store item has changed.                var label = this.getLabel(item) + ' is now ' + value + ' years old';                return label;              }                            function checkBoxClicked( item, nodeWidget, evt ) {                // summary:                //    Action routine called when a checkbox is checked.                var age = this.store.getValue(item,'age');                this.store.setValue(item,'age',++age);              }              // Declare a simple JSON data set and create the model and tree.              var dataSet = { identifier:'name', label:'name', items:[                                {name:'Homer', age:'45'},                                {name:'Marge', age:'40'}                              ]};              var store = new ItemFileWriteStore({data: dataSet});              var model = new ForestStoreModel( {store: store, rootLabel:'The Family'});              var tree  = new Tree( {model: model, id:'MyTree'});              connect.connect( tree, "onCheckBoxClick", model, checkBoxClicked );              // Map the 'age' update event to a _TreeNode 'label' update and call the              // action routine makeLabel() to get the label text.              tree.mapEventToAttr( null,'age','label', makeLabel );              domReady( function() {                tree.placeAt('CheckboxTree');              });           }      );    </script><h3 id="widgets">Mixing in other Widgets</h3>By default the CheckBox Tree uses its own multi state checkbox widget to representa data items checked state. However, the CheckBox Tree a also llows you to mixinother widgets which are capable of representing a checked state.The optional CheckBox Tree property *widget* is an object with the followingproperties:#### type: ####> Widget. The widget must support the accessors *get()* and *set()* and must> have the *checked* property. In addition, the widgets should not stop any > 'onClick' events calling *event.stop()* nor should it change any related> widget instances without generating an onClick event for those widgets.#### args: ####> Object, Optional list of arguments as an object to be passed to the constructor of the> widget.#### target: ####> String, optional name of the target node of a click event, The default is 'INPUT'.#### mixin: ####> Function, optional function called prior to instantiation of the widget. If> specified, the function is called in the context of the tree node as: *mixin( args )*> were *args* is the list of arguments to be passed to the widget constructor.  Note: Argument *args* is the widget property *args* with the default argumentsrequired by the CheckBox Tree mixed in.#### postCreate: ####> Function, optional function called immediately after the creation of the widget.The following sample is the core portion of demo application /cbtree/demos/tree05.html.In this example the ToggleButton widget is used instead of the default CheckBoxTree multi-state checkbox. Note: this sample also relies on the Tree Styling APIbeing loaded.    <script type="text/javascript">      require([        "dojo/domReady",        "dojo/data/ItemFileWriteStore",        "dijit/form/ToggleButton",        "cbtree/Tree",                      // CheckBox Tree                      "cbtree/TreeStyling",               // Tree Styling API        "cbtree/models/ForestStoreModel"    // Tree Forest Store Model        ], function( domReady, ItemFileWriteStore, ToggleButton, Tree, TreeStyling, ForestStoreModel ) {          var store = new ItemFileWriteStore( { url: "../datastore/Simpsons.json" });          var model = new ForestStoreModel( {                                  store: store,                                  query: {type: 'parent'},                                  rootLabel: 'The Simpsons',                                  checkedRoot: true                                  });           var tree = new Tree( { model: model,                                 id: "MyTree",                                 widget: { type: ToggleButton,                                            args:{iconClass:'dijitCheckBoxIcon'},                                            mixin: function(args) {                                                    args['label'] = this.label;                                                  }                                         }                               });          // Hide Labels and Icons for the entire tree.          tree.set("labelStyle", {display:'none'});          tree.set("iconStyle", {display:'none'});          domReady( function() {            tree.placeAt( "CheckboxTree" );          });        }      );    </script><h2 id="samples">Sample Application</h2>***********************************The following is a basic sample of how to create a model, associate the modelwith the tree and display the tree itself. In addition, the sample applicationconnects the *onCheckBoxClick* event of the tree and as a result every timea checkbox is clicked the function *checkBoxClicked()* is called.    <!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">    <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en">      <head>         <title>Dijit Tree with Checkboxes</title>             <style type="text/css">          @import "../../dijit/themes/claro/claro.css";          @import "../themes/claro/claro.css";        </style>        <script type="text/javascript">          var dojoConfig = {                async: true,                parseOnLoad: true,                isDebug: true,                baseUrl: "../../",                packages: [                  { name: "dojo",  location: "dojo" },                  { name: "dijit", location: "dijit" },                  { name: "cbtree",location: "cbtree" }                ]          };        </script>        <script type="text/javascript" src="../../dojo/dojo.js"></script>       </head>              <body class="claro">        <h1 class="DemoTitle">Dijit Tree with Multi State CheckBoxes</h1>        <div id="CheckboxTree">            <script type="text/javascript">            require([              "dojo/_base/connect",              "dojo/data/ItemFileWriteStore",              "dojo/domReady",              "cbtree/Tree",                    // Checkbox tree              "cbtree/models/ForestStoreModel"  // ForestStoreModel              ], function( connect, ItemFileWriteStore, domReady, Tree, ForestStoreModel) {                function checkBoxClicked( item, nodeWidget, evt ) {                  alert( "The new state for " + this.getLabel(item) + " is: " + nodeWidget.get("checked") );                }                var store = new ItemFileWriteStore( { url: "../datastore/Family-1.7.json" });                var model = new ForestStoreModel( {                                    store: store,                                    query: {type: 'parent'},                                    rootLabel: 'The Family'                                 });                 var tree = new Tree( {                                  model: model,                                  id: "MenuTree",                                  branchIcons: true,                                  branchReadOnly: false,                                  checkBoxes: true,                                  nodeIcons: true                                });                connect.connect( tree, "onCheckBoxClick", model, checkBoxClicked );                domReady( function() {                  tree.placeAt('CheckboxTree');                });            });          </script>        </div>        <h2>Click a checkbox</h2>      </body>     </html>